API reference for Device Flow and Native SSO (#2333)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/oidc/index.md

| client_id               | Obtained during either manual client registration or through the [Dynamic Client Registration API](/docs/reference/api/oauth-clients/). It identifies the client and must match the value preregistered in Okta.                                                                                                                       | String |
| scope                   | A list of scopes that the client wants included in the access token. See [scopes](#access-token-scopes-and-claims).                                                                                                                                                                                                 | String |

#### Response properties

Based on the scopes requested. Generally speaking, the scopes specified in a request are included in the access token in the response.

| Property                  | Description                                                                                    | Type    |
| :------------------------ | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------ |

> | verification_uri          | The verification URI that the resource owner must visit to authenticate.                            | String  |

Reviewer: The URI that the end-user visits to verify.

> | verification_uri_complete | A URI that includes the `user_code` that the end-user alternatively visits to verify.          | String  |

Reviewer: The URI

> | verification_uri_complete | The complete verification URI that the resource owner can alternatively visit to authenticate.      | String  |

Reviewer: A URI that includes the "user_code" that the end-user alternatively visits to verify.

> | device_code               | The device code to be kept hidden from the resource owner.                                     | String  |

Reviewer: The device verification code.

> | user_code                 | The user code to be shown to the resource owner.                                               | String  |

Reviewer: The verification code for the end-user.

> | interval                  | The interval time the client should wait until it can poll the /token endpoint in seconds.     | Integer |

Reviewer: The minimum amount of time in seconds that the client should wait between polling requests to the token endpoint.

> | expires_in                | The expiration time of the device code and user code in seconds.                               | Integer |

Reviewer: The expiration time of the `device_code` and `user_code` in seconds.

> #### List of errors

Reviewer: Possible errors

Author: This heading name is common across the doc, we always call it `List of errors`. I'll leave it as it is, otherwise it's going to look inconsistent with the rest of the docs.

Reviewer: Ha, actually we use `Possible errors` for authorize and `List of errors` for tokens  @susanharper-okta which one we should use?

Reviewer 2: @larsjohansen-okta and @yuliu-okta - that is not currently defined in our [API Reference Template](https://oktawiki.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/748062101/REST+API+Reference+Markdown+Template) that we provide for Devs to use to create new API Reference docs. However, I like **Possible errors** better than **List of errors**. I feel that Possible errors is more descriptive than just saying "List". Let's go with Possible errors and I'll add it to the above mentioned template. Thanks.

| Error Id                 | Details                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | invalid_client           | The specified `client_id` isn't found.                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: The specified client ID is invalid.

> | invalid_request          | The request structure is invalid. For example, the basic authentication header is malformed, both header and form parameters are used for authentication, no authentication information is provided, or the request contains duplicate parameters. |

Reviewer: The request is missing a necessary parameter, the parameter has an invalid value, or the request contains duplicate parameters.

| invalid_scope            | The scopes list contains an invalid or unsupported value.                                                                                                                                                  |

#### Request example

```bash
curl -v -X POST \
-H "Content-type:application/x-www-form-urlencoded" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/device/authorize" \
-d "client_id={client_id}&client_secret={client_secret}&scope={scope}"
```

#### Response example (success)

```json
{
  "user_code": "RGTCFDTL",
  "device_code": "5cbeb234-7e00-4ff7-9aa2-b1a4558a75d2",
  "interval": 5,
  "verification_uri_complete": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/activate?user_code=RGTCFDTL",
  "verification_uri": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/activate",
  "expires_in": 600
}
```

#### Response example (error)

```http
HTTP 401 Unauthorized
Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
{
    "error" : "invalid_client",
    "error_description" : "No client credentials found."
}
```

### /token

<ApiOperation method="post" url="${baseUrl}/v1/token" />

> This endpoint returns access tokens, ID tokens, and refresh tokens, depending on the request parameters. For [password](/docs/guides/implement-password/), [client credentials](/docs/guides/implement-client-creds/), [saml2 assertion](/docs/guides/implement-saml2/overview/)<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />, and [refresh token](/docs/guides/refresh-tokens/) flows, calling `/token` is the only step of the flow. For the [authorization code](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code/) flow, calling `/token` is the second step of the flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint returns access tokens, ID tokens, and refresh tokens depending on the request parameters. For [password](/docs/guides/implement-password/), [client credentials](/docs/guides/implement-client-creds/), [saml2 assertion](/docs/guides/implement-saml2/overview/)<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />, and [refresh token](/docs/guides/refresh-tokens/) flows, calling `/token` is the only step of the flow. For the [authorization code](/docs/guides/implement-auth-code/) flow, calling `/token` is the second step of the flow.
```

| assertion               | Required if the `grant_type` is `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:saml2-bearer`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />. | String |
| audience                | Required if the `grant_type` is `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />. | String |
| subject_token_type      | Required if the `grant_type` is `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />. | String |
| subject_token           | Required if the `grant_type` is `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />. | String |
| actor_token_type        | Required if the `grant_type` is `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />. | String |
| actor_token             | Required if the `grant_type` is `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />. | String |

> #### Response properties

Reviewer: it should also include device_secret. Do we want to include example for token exchange?

Author: The particular example of a token exchange call will be shown in the guide, so don't think it's appropriate to include it in this overall api reference about OAuth2/OIDC.

> **Note:** This endpoint's base URL varies depending on whether you are using a Custom Authorization Server. For more information, see [Composing your base URL](#composing-your-base-url).

> This endpoint takes an access token, ID token, refresh token, or device secret<ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> and returns a boolean that indicates whether it is active or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint takes an access token, ID token, refresh token, or device secret<ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> and returns a boolean that indicates whether it is active.
```

| Parameter               | Description                                                                                                    | Type          |
| :---------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-----        |

> | token                   | An access token, ID token, refresh token or device secret<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />.                                                                   | String        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| token                   | An access token, ID token, refresh token, or device secret<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />.                                                                   | String        |
```

> | token_type_hint         | Indicates the type of `token` being passed. Valid values: `access_token`, `id_token`, `refresh_token`, and `device_secret`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />.   | String (Enum) |

Reviewer: revoke also support device_secret now

> | token_type_hint         | Indicates the type of `token` being passed. Valid values are `access_token`, `id_token`, `refresh_token` and `device_secret`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />.   | String (Enum) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| token_type_hint         | Indicates the type of `token` being passed. Valid values: `access_token`, `id_token`, `refresh_token`, and `device_secret`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />.   | String (Enum) |
```

> #### Response properties

Reviewer: device_secret will have `sid`, do we also need to provide the example for it?

Author: I don't think the general OAuth2/OIDC api reference is the best place for it, rather have it in the guide.

        "address",
        "phone",
        "offline_access",
        "groups",

>         "online_access", [Early Access](/docs/reference/releases-at-okta/#early-access-ea)

Reviewer 2: We avoid putting any time of comments in request and response examples like this. Can it go at the top of the example and just make note of the what is EA?

| address          | Requests access to the `address` claim.                                                                         | No             |
| groups           | Requests access to the `groups` claim.                                                                          | No             |
| offline_access   | Requests a refresh token used to obtain more access tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication.   | No             |

> | online_access <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />    | Requests a refresh token used to obtain more access tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication. The refresh token and the id token will be bound to the browser session. See *link*.   | No             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| online_access <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />    | Requests a refresh token used to obtain more access tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication. The refresh token and the ID token are bound to the browser session. See *link*.   | No             |
```

> | device_sso <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />   | Requests a device secret used to obtain new set of tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication. See *link*  | No             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| device_sso <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />   | Requests a device secret used to obtain a new set of tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication. See *link*  | No             |
```

| offline_access   | Requests a refresh token used to obtain more access tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication.   | No             |
| device_sso <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />   | Requests a device secret used to obtain a new set of tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication. See *link*  | No             |

### Scope values

* `openid` is required for any OpenID request connect flow. If the `openid` scope value isn't present, the request may be a valid OAuth 2.0 request, but it's not an OpenID Connect request.
* `profile` requests access to these default profile claims: `name`, `family_name`, `given_name`, `middle_name`, `nickname`, `preferred_username`, `profile`, `picture`, `website`, `gender`, `birthdate`, `zoneinfo`,`locale`, and `updated_at`.
* `offline_access` can only be requested in combination with a `response_type` that contains `code`. If the `response_type` doesn't contain `code`, `offline_access` is ignored.
* For more information about `offline_access`, see the [OIDC spec](http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#OfflineAccess).

> * For more information about `device_sso`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />, see *link*.

Reviewer: link?

Author: @susanharper-okta to substitute when the guide has a link

Reviewer 2: See [Configure Device Authorization](/docs/guides/device-authorization-grant/main/)

Author: That's the guide for device flow, this feature is Native SSO, do we have a guide link for that ready?

| address          | Requests access to the `address` claim.                                                                         | No             |
| groups           | Requests access to the `groups` claim.                                                                          | No             |
| offline_access   | Requests a refresh token used to obtain more access tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication.   | No             |

> | device_sso <ApiLifecycle access="ea" />   | Requests a device secret used to obtain a new set of tokens without re-prompting the user for authentication. See *link*  | No             |

Author: Need the doc to Native SSO, `device_sso` scope is related to Native SSO and not Device flow.

### Scope values

* `openid` is required for any OpenID request connect flow. If the `openid` scope value isn't present, the request may be a valid OAuth 2.0 request, but it's not an OpenID Connect request.
* `profile` requests access to these default profile claims: `name`, `family_name`, `given_name`, `middle_name`, `nickname`, `preferred_username`, `profile`, `picture`, `website`, `gender`, `birthdate`, `zoneinfo`,`locale`, and `updated_at`.
* `offline_access` can only be requested in combination with a `response_type` that contains `code`. If the `response_type` doesn't contain `code`, `offline_access` is ignored.
* For more information about `offline_access`, see the [OIDC spec](http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#OfflineAccess).

> * For more information about `device_sso`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />, see [Native SSO](/docs/guides/native-sso/main/).

Reviewer 2: the url has been updated. it is now: /docs/guides/configure-native-sso/main/

`openid`, `profile`, `email`, `address`, `phone`, `offline_access`, and `groups` are available to ID tokens and access tokens, using either the Okta Org Authorization Server or a Custom Authorization Server. For details, see [Scopes](#access-token-scopes-and-claims). All of these scopes except `groups` are defined in the OpenID Connect specification.

> Additionally, we have reserved the scope `device_sso`<ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> as is has a particular meaning in the Native SSO flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, we reserved the scope `device_sso` <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> as it has a particular meaning in the Native SSO flow.
```

Author: Nice catch.
